The next thing that we're going to take a look at is spring actuator spring actuator as the official
page says allows you to monitor and interact with your application with pre-build in endpoints for any
application that you're going to build.
And if we check out the last say whose list of alternatives for any application that you're going to
provide and you can even customize the endpoints for any application
to make use of Springboro actuator.
Let's go to our Maybin repository.
And what we're looking for as spring boot starter an actuator
and let's take out the latest one 1 8 5 2.
And this copy the dependency.
Now let's switch back to our ID now.
And I opened up my spring and we see Project right here.
And if I go to my Palm file in my palm file I'm simply going to provide my dependency right below.
And if you say you read Maven is already resolved that so check out our actuator endpoints.
I'm going to run my application.
Our application is starting up
and as you can see here we have a map lots of different points for our application even if we didn't
provide them.
And if we take a closer look at them we how Heldt beans luggers trace conflict Propes dump info mappings
and lots of water and points for applications to use so to check out dam.
Let's go to Firefox now
and I'm going to be opening up a new window and in a new window I'll go to my application and provide
the port as 80 89 and then I'm simply going to say mappings.
And in the mappings we can see that were unauthorized.
The reason for that the end point is a secured one.
We have to be all right in the security role for our testing purposes.
To do that I'll switch back to my ID and in my ID I'll go to my application properties
in my application properties.
I'm going to say and points that mappings and sensitive is going to be false.
So if you switch back to Firefox again and if the refresh to page Rigaud we have the full mappings for
our application and you can see everything we have and the things that we don't have in our actual configuration
the ones that provide it with spring.
And the cool thing about actuator endpoints as you've seen here you can simply override their configurations
with couple of alternatives and you can disable or enable the ones that you don't need.
Let's take out another endpoint and this time I'm going to be enabling the environments and point and
I'll say endpoints environment and sensitivity is going to be false.
So if I say that our application context is going to be refreshed as you can see in our console and
when it's done I can be able to go to my endpoint.
So if I go to my browser and I'll say localhost A.D. 89 and slash environment here we go we have a full
list of our environment variables.
And as you can see we have our application port.
We how our Joe on time.
And we how lots of other environment variables that we weren't even aware of.
As you can see with this simple example spring actuator is a great way to extend your application so
that you can monitor and get some real time statistics about your application usage.
Main purpose of spring actuator endpoints is about the cloud park for spraying.
So for that part I'm planning on the walloping a Macra services training.
So in that training we're going to be digging into these actuator endpoints.
So make sure to check that out.
I'll be seeing you in the next video.